From hanselminutes.com. It's Hanselman. It's
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number three 41 recorded live
Thursday, October 11, 2012. This
episode is brought to you
by Tellerik offering the best
in developer tools and support
online@telerikdotcomandbyfranklins.net training developers to work
smarter and now offering gesture
pack a powerful gesture, recording
and recognition system for Microsoft
connect for windows developers details@gesturepak.com.
In this episode, Scott talks
with Eric Kim's Zack about
porting the iOS touch-based game,
Contra issuer to HTML five
and JavaScript. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman. This is another
episode of Hansel minutes. And
today I'm talking with Eric
Clemson from clarity consulting. How's
it going, sir? How you
doing Scott? I'm well, thanks
for talking to me. So
I had to talk to
you. I had to call
you guys right away because
a couple of days ago,
you guys announced contrary. Sure.
It was a game that
is a classic game. I've
got it on my iPhone
and my iPad, except it
was built in HTML five.
So you poured it this
whole thing over to HTML
five and JavaScript, which pretty
much blew my mind. Yeah,
that's what we've been doing
for the last six months.
And we're really proud of
it. It's we just released
it two days ago, maybe
a day ago. And so
far the feedback has been
really positive. So this was
originally created by mochas games.
Is that right? And then
Microsoft approached them and said,
Hey, I really want to
have this running in HTML
five, right? It was a
one man shop out in
the Ukraine or Russia, one
of the two. And you
know, this, this guy, max,
he single handily kinda came
up with the game mechanics
and the concepts and built
pretty much the whole game
aside from the artwork and
the soundtrack by hand himself
and is fairly obsessed with
the quality and kind of
the fidelity of the game.
And one approached by Microsoft.
He actually kinda turned us
down. You know, he actually
said that he didn't think
it could, you could ever
pull off that kind of
quality in a, an HTML
five report of the game.
So he actually turned us
down the first time. Then
he actually went on to
win best tablet game of
the year by Apple and
a handful of other kind
of game awards. And we
reapproached him and he accepted.
Did you have to show
him something to prove that
you could do it? I
mean, could see if, if
Someone were really kind of
detail oriented and just obsessed
with like, you know, buttery,
smooth animation that they'd be
like, yeah, come on. Let's
not, I don't want to
go and dirty my game
by putting it in HTML
five. Right? So the I
E 10 team I 19
internet Explorer team has been
doing a series of what
they call game changers and
cut the rope was kind
of the last example last
year has kind of showed
piece item there. It was
interactive game that was ported
from iOS as well. That
kind of gave us a
little bit of street creds
to, to say that, you
know, we think this is
possible. We had also been
working with a handful of
other game companies, kind of
behind the scenes doing proof
of concepts that prove that
we could get that level
of fidelity that they were
in seeking out at with
JavaScript on an HTML five.
And it took a little
arm twisting, but we, you
know, we got his buy
in and he was fairly
skeptical even up until the
final moments of development, but
all of a sudden done,
everyone's very happy with the
output. So I don't know
if the people that are
listening are game developers, but
I'm going to presume that
they're not, I'm going to
guess that most of the
people who are listening are
kind of, you know, smart
developers, but are probably more
likely to be doing text
boxes over data than they
are to be doing, you
know, splines and, and math
and complicated algebra inside of
in JavaScript. So let's kind
of break this down a
little bit in my mind,
if I were going to
go and create a game,
I'd probably have a whole
lot of transparent PNGs. I'd
have some JavaScript game engine
and that's about as far
as my design has gotten
already, but I suspect though
looking at the stuff that's
going on inside of countries,
you're kind of comparing it
to cut the rope. This
isn't a game that you
could just fill up with
transparent bitmaps and, and try
to fool the eye. Can
you, Right. That's a good
point. What you're referring to
is just the tax, you
know, creative coding technique, creative
design technique of using Sprite,
animations in games. And a
lot of what you see,
especially in most kind of
casual games is the animations.
And kind of the characters
you see on the screen
are usually their emotions and
their movement are controlled with
these sprites. And these sprites
are more or less just
a strip of images with
frames in them that show
characters in various stages or
animations. And in Contra juror
that we did have a
fair amount of that. However,
the majority of the design,
or I guess the illusion
to your eye was actually
math, calculating kind of complex
as a curves and dynamic
drawing on the screen. So
for instance, there's, you know,
the main characters name is
petite, his tail wags randomly,
and it moves within the
direction that the characters moving
in and it will stretch
on his velocity. And though
that's the kind of detail
that a, you know, the
game developer wanted in this
game. And so when you
play that game, it feels
very, very fluid, especially with
something like the tail. If
you notice that little detail
there, the, you know, the
other kind of key element
there, that's kind of nice
to highlight is box Tootie
drives the, a lot of
the physics behind the scenes.
So maybe we were getting
a little deep there for
in the box duty, but
the, the kind of the
drawing behind the game is
largely dynamic, which is a
little different compared to how
most traditional casual games are
done with Brightspace spreadsheets. Did
you work on cut the
rope? I didn't some of
the fine folks at pixel
lab worked on it. And
when I, when I looked
at that and when I
play HTML five games, I
always like to bring up
the developer toolbar and kind
of wander around and try
to figure out what's what's
going on. So let's, let's
actually do dig in a
little bit. You don't just
write these things from scratch,
right? I mean, there are
known libraries within JavaScript and
other other engines that you
can use and box two
D is a physics engine
for games that that was
used. Is there, is this
a JavaScript engine or is
this a C engine and
you poured it. So yeah,
we talk about frameworks. The
biggest one that we used
for this game was box
TD box duty is a
pretty common physics engine in
the game world. It will
allow you to easily hook
up things that are like
joints and ropes. And for
example, we have characters in
the game, which we call
snots, which are these kind
of stringy, stretchy things. And
those are a collection of
rope joints that are joined
together with some specific kind
of properties on the box
duty objects. Those, if there
was a debug menu, for
example, if you turn that
on, you'd see kind of
a skeleton of all of
the box, two D objects
in the background box two
D it was originally written,
I believe in C plus
plus, which was then ported
to action script, and then
recently made available in a
JavaScript version for web developers.
And then until maybe the
recent round of browser updates,
most of the browsers had
a pretty hard time doing
all the calculations that box
Judy does behind the scenes,
but with, especially in an
Explorer 10 and some of
the advanced, modern browsers out
there, we were able to
replicate exactly the physics look
and feel that you get
in the iOS game in
HTML five In box two
D is interesting because it
originally was done by Aaron
keto who works for blizzard
entertainment and was done a
number of years. Yeah, it's,
it's a fairly old engine,
not old in a bad
way, but it's pretty robust.
And if anything, when I
looked at some of the
game creators code for contractor,
he was using joints and
ropes and different types of
bodies in ways that I
really haven't seen inbox use
like that inbox duty in
the past. So I think
that's what adds to a
pretty unique gameplay. If you
compare it to say like
an angry, angry birds, which
is fairly a standard, also
has Fox TV running behind
the scenes. Yeah. One of
the things that's really interesting
about countries you're, that's so
unusual, I think compared to
other games, is that the
amount of, of what kind
of organic animations and kind
of, you know, idle animations
are really high. I mean,
angry birds, blink, and they
do stuff. But for the
most part, you know, you're
throwing a physical body at
a bunch of other physical
bodies and they all have
properties and it's finely tuned,
but the general idea is
one of collision. But contrary
Jewish is filled with these
organic curves. I mean, even
the splash screen has these
eyeballs moving around and these
little creatures turning and moving,
it just has a very
non rectangular rectilinear kind of,
of style. That's almost kind
of impossible to get one's
brain around. If you asked
me why this game one,
you know, best tablet of
the year game or whatever
the award was from Apple
it's exactly, for those reasons,
the, the level of detail
and the amount of finesse
that has gone into all
of the subtleties of the
game are unbelievable. Absolutely mind
blowing to me, not really
being a game designer per
se, but being a designer
at heart and can appreciate
the finer subtleties of, of
a craftsmanship. But I mean,
this is true craftsmanship in
this game and everything from
the rotation of the particles,
in the background to the
movement of the eyes, to
the way the character will
move across the screen and
the lighting effects that a
bounce off his skin. You
know, if you look at
the snots, for example, they
all look at the character
as he moves across the
screen. So they're all kind
of following him. They all
blink at different rates. They
all have, you know, just
so much detail, some things
move. So subtly it's almost
imperceivable. And yet the game
creator as we were building,
it would, you know, create
50 bucks of all the
visual discrepancies and things like,
you know, the one particle
in the background of the
hundred that are back there,
isn't moving correctly. So really
that was my question that
he's actually kind of directing
this and he knows his
game backwards and forwards cause
he wrote it from scratch
and now you're creating homage
to it And he's not
going to sign off on
it unless it is the
same game. Right. And that
was a, you know, a
major piece of the puzzle
here when we were building
this part of our process
and max was deeply involved
with everything we did. Max
is a unique character because
he wrote this entire game
for iOS. He also wrote
it in flash and he
also wrote it for a
windows phone recently in X
and a so kind of
this one man machine has
legitimately afforded this game to
majority of, you know, frameworks
here and helped us along
the way with JavaScript and
HTML. Yeah, he's definitely a
beast. He, it looks like
at one iPad game of
the year in December of
2011 at the iTunes rewind
and it's also won a
Webby award for best tablet
game. The list kind of
goes on over the last
year. It's won a half
dozen awards from best physics
games, best puzzle game, all
over the place. So he
wrote a lot of the
ports himself, but he didn't
write the JavaScript one. Did
he, did he write some
JavaScript? Did he say, I
don't like the way this
behaves and then dive in
and then fix some code
and show it to you?
Well, not, not exactly. He
wrote the game in action
script at some point and
accident script and JavaScript are
fairly similar. So we had
good kind of direction. However,
just being the nature of
JavaScript and running in the
browser and getting interpreted in
real time, we had to
make a lot of optimizations
that were just fundamentally different.
So when you know, the
game developer might say like,
Hey, you know, I've already
written this just copy and
paste. It. It wouldn't be
that simple, just given the
difference of how JavaScript is
as a language as not
necessarily being object oriented, created
a huge struggles for us
to kind of structure a
large scale application like this
for JavaScript. So it is
large scale. I mean, this
is a lot of, a
lot of code. This isn't
just like a single HTML
page and then countries your
dot JS. There's, there's some,
some work in here you've
got the box to DJ.
Yeah. It was probably about
50,000 lines of code. And
there may even be more
at this point, but last
time I checked, it was
about 50,000. And what libraries
did you use other than
box today? So that's kind
of the beauty of it.
There are a lot of
game frameworks that are kind
of emerging at this time.
Some that we explored like
easel JS and it, and
chant JS and a handful
of the other ones. And
they're good for most cases,
but when you need the
control, every single aspect of
the game and squeeze out
every tiny bit of performance
that you can, those frameworks
tend to break down or
don't offer the type of
control that you're looking for.
So there were no other
frameworks used other than box
two D for our, our
game. We built all of
it from scratch. And a
lot of the time was
spent figuring out how to
create our own kind of
bitmap managers or animation schedulers,
or touch framework or a
handful of things. We, we
had a strategy for splitting
up CSS, animations versus canvas
dynamic animations to kind of
offset the load on, on
the drawing engines, things like
that. We had done a
lot of exploration of finding
kind of the secret sauce
of what combinations of canvas
drawing and CSS, animation, and
drop frame rating and different
strategies like that. It would
take to, to kind of
produce the 60 frames per
second quality that you get
on the iOS app. So
there were no other frameworks.
He in iOS game, there
was a handful of frameworks
that existed for game developers,
but they're fairly minimal compared
to some of the larger
game frameworks that exist. So
it wasn't hard to create
our own. Hi, this is
Scott and I've got a
cool offer from the folks@lynda.com,
L Y N D a.com.
It's an online learning company.
They've got more than 77,000
video tutorials. They teach software
creative business skills. Membership started
only $25 a month. You
get unlimited 24 seven access
to all their top quality
video courses. They're all taught
by expert instructors. You get
to learn anytime, anywhere at
your own pace. There's bite-size
tutorials, there's comprehensive courses. You
could learn web design and
programing, regular design photography, business,
3d animation, lots more lynda.com
has got a variety of
courses for Microsoft developers. They've
got courses on visual studio,
windows, windows, phones, SQL server.
You can pick the courses
you want, put them in
your queue for whenever you're
ready to watch. You can
even learn on the go.
They've got an optimized mobile
site and they've even got
a free iPhone and iPad
app for members. You can
try lynda.com L Y N
D a.com free for seven
days. Just visit lynda.com/hansel minutes,
L Y N D a.com/hanselman.
It's exclusive for Hansel minutes,
listeners lynda.com training online for
free seven days. Check it
out. lynda.com/hansel minutes. Do you
feel that that it's time
for HTML five gaming or,
I mean, remember that it
was just like 10 years
ago when we were pretty
impressed that we could put
a table up and put
some text boxes in it,
you know, are we perverting
this, this, this kind of
terminal effectively where the browser
is really just a dumb
terminal and we're just trying
to shoehorn games into it.
Or do you think that
we've got where we Need
to go? As far as
the libraries at JavaScript in
the browser are exposing that
it is time to make
an HTML five gaming platter.
I definitely think it's ready.
I don't know that the
tooling and the libraries are,
have caught up yet, but
it takes games like contour
and other creative technologists to
put, push out games of
this quality to convince people
that, yeah, this is a
totally viable platform for making
highly immersive high fidelity games.
And I, I think our
biggest struggle was not, I
don't know that JavaScript in
the current state of the
browsers are targeting games necessarily.
So the means of producing
a game framework are, are,
you know, it's the wild
wild West right now. No
one really knows the best
way. And I think the
way that we came up
with is pretty good. And
there's a lot of other
people that are doing similar
things, but once the tools
catch up and there's a
better guidance for structuring large
complex games for the web,
I think you'll see a
lot more games like this
come out. And did you
do most of your work
in like sublime text? I
mean, I watched some of
the tear down videos and
it seemed like some people
were notepad and some people
were in visual studio and
some people were in sublime
text if you just kind
of use whatever you could
find. Yeah. That was actually
nice because given the being
that it was JavaScript in,
in web based, we did
have a slew of, you
know, Microsoft technologies like TFS
to manage our code and
things like that. But we,
we had a team of
like three or four people
and they were rolling in
and off as we needed
different expertise ranging from pure
designer to, you know, performance
level JavaScript expert in. So
everyone would have different hardware
and some of us designers
use Macs and some people
used windows and some people
like the type of had
features in visual studio 2012,
and some of us were
comfortable writing in sublime. So
it, it was interesting workflow,
but we worked pretty efficiently
on all sorts of different
platforms with all sorts of
different hardware. So it came
out pretty well. The, the,
the, I was looking here
on a website about box
two D and web workers
and performance. And I realized
that if I understand correctly,
you were asked or approached
by the internet Explorer team
to do this work, but
is the goal to make
internet Explorer look good? I
mean, it's kind of a
tough question to ask, but
I mean, one could presume
that they were taking a
risk. I mean, that it
worked, that it would work
really great on it. So
at no point, did anyone
ever say, Hey, we need
to make this, make this
game look awesome. I even
make the other browsers look
bad. That was never the
theme of this. And that
was never the, the point
of it. The point was
just to create a game
that we think is cool
and it was happened to
be sponsored by Microsoft. And
it just happens to run
the best on their browser.
The other kind of goal
there was there aren't many,
multitouch enabled HTML five games
and Microsoft's positioned really well,
especially with internet Explorer, 10
to show off multitouch in
a browser, especially with the
new windows eight tablets that
are coming out. This seemed
like a natural play for
that platform. So while we
do handle touch events for
all browsers, it works really
well. The touch is actually
hardware accelerated in internet Explorer,
10. So if you run
the game on a windows,
eight tablet, that's touch enabled.
It actually performs really, really
well compared to some of
the other browsers. Okay. So
that brings up some interesting
questions around kind of vendor
specific things. I mean, for
the most part, you're writing
regular JavaScript and regular CSS,
but were there a number
of times where you had
to drop in and say,
we're going to need to
use these vendor specific prefixes
here, and we're going to
need to do this this
custom? Well, I could touch
event is touch events, something
that HTML five and JavaScript
specify, or is that a
Microsoft specific extension? So, So
two questions are the vendor
specific code or prefixes we,
we had, that was so
when we talk about being
honest, that was the biggest
pain in the ass. I
guess, of this whole project
was we, we basically in
many places had to write
five times the amount of
code that we would normally
have to write because there
was, you know, it's not
that the code was all
that different. It was just
that there was different vendor
prefixes that we had to
satisfy. So dynamically transforming a
Dom element on the screen,
let's say that I had
the right, the transform code
three times or four times
to satisfy all the different
browsers that said, because so
much of it was done
in the canvas. The canvas
is pretty standard across all
the browsers. And so when
you tell a rectangle go
from zero to 50 points
and do it across the
spline, it just works. And
it works really consistently across
most of the browsers. So
that was good. That helped
us kind of be consistent
with the browsers, the things
that we split up and
did, and Dom and CSS,
those were the things that
ended up being pretty verbose
to satisfy all the conditions.
The other question I think
you had was touch support,
specifically touches great. You know,
I'm, I'm excited to see
more people take advantage of,
of touch on, on as
more tablets come out and
more browsers enable touch in
on those devices. But for
us, there was we actually,
if you look at the
developer tear down for the
game, we have a snippet
in there that shows how
we kind of infer the
platform and decide how we're
going to handle touch events.
Each platform handles touch events
slightly different. So there was
specific code for each browser.
What we have up there,
I think is kind of
a nice way of hooking
up events. If you're kind
of, if you're going to
handle touch in your own
games, it'll certainly simplify, managing
the various paths that the
touch events can go down.
That said there wasn't a
huge advantage or disadvantage to
handling raw touchpoints from any
platform. I think they're all
about, about the same, no
platform did it better than
others. Ms. Gesture is something
that's different. That's not what
we used in the game,
but we have used it
in other projects that library
is different than the way
that other platforms handle gestures.
Now this is different than
raw touch, but the actual
gesture. So the act of
a two finger rotate or
a three finger swipe, something
like that. Microsoft has some
really nice hooks in their
own gesture, library, API that
I think personally, I think
they, they work more intuitively
than some of the other
platforms. What about things like
coffee script or TypeScript? Did
you use any kind of
macro or expansion type things
to try to get around
some of the, the, the
not fun aspects of JavaScript
I had to do you
have opinion on this? I've
been, I'm a, I'm a,
I'm a creative guy and
I'm about as technical as
a creative guy can get.
But I did write a
lot of, a lot of
code for this, but mostly
from a user experience standpoint
from a, how does this
button feel when you touch
it? What are the animations
doing? And when the, when
the menu slide open, all
the animations are chained and,
you know, coordinated so that
they kind of trickle onto
the page as opposed to
just kind of literally showing
up and things like that.
So, very much from a
front end perspective, do I
spend my time, but there
are a lot of times
where I have to get
into JavaScript to make the
things work the way I
want them to work. And
I'm not by any means
a JavaScript expert, if anything,
I'm more confused by it
now than I was six
months ago. And a lot
of guys, I know, kind
of in the open source
space have been telling me
to try out copy script.
And I know that there's
a decent following of folks
that do copy script development.
I've always been reluctant to
add an additional layer of
anything on top of what
I thought already was fairly
cumbersome to. So just recently
last week, maybe a week
before that, I, I looked
into TypeScript after it was
announced. And I was curious,
so I rewrote certain portions
of kinda my own stuff
in, in TypeScript. And what
happened was when I compiled
it and I looked at
the code, it was like,
I instantaneously became a JavaScript
master overnight without actually having
to write any advanced Java
script. So it was great
for me because I know
how to write object oriented
code. I, I, I've written
a lot of C-sharp code
and I've written a lot
of action script code, which
has a strong kind of
inheritance and object model. And
when you're used to writing
code like that, it makes
sense. But when you're writing
JavaScript and you're hanging things
off a prototype and you're
doing the object literal model
and things like that, it
just gets confusing. And it's
just a simple thing. Like,
well, how do I make
a Singleton and how do
I access it? Or how
do I instantiate it? And
those things throw me for
a loop all the time.
And it may be that
our basic for a lot
of developers, but for creative
guy like me, they throw
me for a loop. And
so writing code, as I
know how kind of in
the object oriented model in
TypeScript and having compiled down
to well-written JavaScript, that was
awesome. And if we would
have had that six months
ago, when we started writing
contour, we probably would have
wrote the whole thing in
TypeScript. Yeah. Interesting. Okay. When
you were writing this, when
you're writing countries, you're, even
though you're testing it on
all browsers, like I'm looking
at it right now on
and then I've got
an on another monitor. I've
also got it running in
Chrome and it looks great
on both. Was there anything
where you thought maybe you
were screwed, like you were
60% done or 70% down
and you're like, Oh man,
we just hit a limitation
in the browser or a
limitation in JavaScript, or basically
you got stuck and you
were afraid you're going to
have to go back and
tell somebody that it was
over. I thought, I felt
like that every single week,
I thought the project was
going to have every single
week between kind of the,
the level of detail. I,
it, the game started off
when, when we first were
approached by Microsoft, it was,
Hey, can you port a
few levels of Contra juror
to Heidi 10? And we're
like, Oh, that's easy. And
then it slowly evolved into
man. This thing's awesome. It'd
be great if it worked
everywhere. Okay. Hey, what would
it take to port every
single aspect of the iOS
game exactly. As you see
it. And I need said,
and then we had kind
of the added pressure from
the game designer of just
hock eyeing, every single little
detail in the game. And
that, you know, I was
most worried that we weren't
going to be able to
pull off the level of
quality that max was looking
for along the way. And,
and he was pushing us
and every path to make
sure that we replicated it
exactly a hundred percent. And
I would be willing to
guess that he would, even
to this day say it's
not perfect, but it's very
close. The original question was
how many, how many times
did you think that you
were basically stuck and you
were like, yep, this is
it. We got as far
as we could, this is
as close as it's gonna
get. And now we're screwed
and it's because of IIE
or it's because of JavaScript
or whatever limitation. Well, we
were always worried about performance
and JavaScript just because it's
JavaScript. And there's a lot
of, not a lot, but
there's a handful of places
in the iOS game that
were done with pixel shaders
or just kind of open
GL like techniques that just
don't exist in CSS or
JavaScript or the canvas. So
we had to do our
best to kind of recreate
visually what you saw, but
using very different means of
producing that effect. And so
that was a huge pain
point for us, not, not
pain point necessarily, but it
was an area of the
game that we spent a
lot of time trying to
figure out performance ways to
pull off visually similar effects.
And I think at one
point we had the ground,
which is actually fairly complex,
the morphing of the ground
and the little shading around
the ground to give it
some depth. That is the
most complex part of this
whole game, because it's made
up of, you know, anywhere
from 20 to 50 bodies
in and joints inbox to
D and they handle touch
and click input. And they
all react differently in a
have little particles like graph
grass and ground particles that
fall off it as you
move it, all those details,
they're all connected to the
ground and the ground drives
a large part of the
user experience. So when we
got the ground working, I
think we got a whole
10 frames per second. And
it was at that point
in the game where we
were like, well, this may
be a deal breaker, and
we might not be able
to go any farther here.
And then somewhere along the
line, I don't know who
did it, but someone here
had the bright idea to
start breaking up the game
into different canvases. So we
broke up the ground in
each ground into its own
canvas that only got updated
when you're interacting with it.
And the rest of the
time, it would just kind
of sit there, idle same
with the product is in
the background and same with
the middle ground and the
character. So all those are
different candidates over in any
given time, we have anywhere
from six to 12 canvases
on the screen. And once
we figured that out, we,
we got massive perf increases
in all the browsers, but
actually specifically in IAE. And
once we got that, it
was just a matter of
honing it down to get,
you know, get exactly what
we were looking for. So
that was once we got
over that hump, it was
not smooth sailing, but it
was a lot easier. We
were more confident at that
point. Well, I would definitely
encourage people to check it
out and not just play
it, but like spend time
just kind of staring at
it. Like I'm sitting here
on level two right now,
and there's, there's idle animations
where the grass is moving
and you could, and I,
and I'm thinking to myself,
okay, the grass is moving.
And then suddenly it moves
like hard, like a, like
a burst of wind shows
up. And then the grass
really bends over totally random.
And then there's like this
almost like burnt, you know,
burnt particles. Like there's these
pieces of black that are
falling in the sky. And
then if you push on
the ground at the bottom
of one of these grounds,
then they kind of little
particles just fall off of
it. And that's happening all
at the same time while
there are, you know, these,
these, I don't even know
how to describe what are
the little blue things that
you're supposed to pick up
these, the energy balls. They're
not just static energy balls.
They're, they're moving in circles
and they're pulsing and they're
transparent and they're, they have
a halo around them. It's
just a, it's crazy. You
roll the guy over the
grass Hill actually influence each
little blade of grass and
it'll bend a little bit
as he rolls over it.
Yeah. It actually works on
a mouse too. You've got
T you've got touch and
you've got mouse. I mean,
even as a mouse game,
it is really, really compelling.
It's a good point too.
Cause we, we built different
mechanisms to handle touch. This
game was never meant for
touch. And it, we had
to kind of force it
to be a touch game
or a sorry, a mouse
game for mouse. And it
was always built for touch
touch first. And so to
adapt it for mouse, we
had that model, some of
the code and add little
helpers there for the mouse.
But what's notable though is
at the end of the
game. Well, once you get
into the dark levels, some
of the visual start to
get real interesting, but then
there's, I E specific levels.
It doesn't mean that you
can't play these on other
browsers. You have to play
them on a, multitouch a
browser on a multi touch
device. But the level of
sponsored by the I-Team they're
new levels, they're not in
the iOS game and they
are kind of newly developed
for this release. And once
you get to those levels,
they're fairly difficult, but, and
you can only win them
with, with multitouch, but they're
visually fairly, very stunning. And
it was like a pleasure
to work on them and
really bring those to life.
Well, that's great. Well, thanks
so much. We're going to
put links to both clarity
and countries. You are dot
I E in the show
notes, and there's also some
videos and some YouTubes where
you kind of discuss some
of these issues and do
a little bit of a
developer tear down. Yeah. And
we're going to be putting
up a series of kind
of much more in depth
technical articles on our blog
sites. So keep an eye
out for those maybe four
or five of those over
the next couple of weeks.
So, Cool. Well, thanks so
much, Eric.  for sharing
what your team did with
country as your, thank you
for having me. This has
been another episode of Hanselminutes
and we'll see you again
next week.